feat: add data-sveltekit-replacestate and -keepfocus options to links (#9019)
sveltejs/kit: documentation/docs/30-advanced/30-link-options.md

Links with a `rel="external"` attribute will receive the same treatment. In addition, they will be ignored during [prerendering](page-options#prerender).

## data-sveltekit-replacestate

Sometimes you don't want navigation to create a new entry in the browser's session history. Adding a `data-sveltekit-replacestate` attribute to a link...

```html
<a data-sveltekit-replacestate href="/path">Path</a>
```

...will replace the current `history` entry rather than creating a new one with `pushState` when the link is clicked.

## data-sveltekit-keepfocus

> Sometimes you don't want an element to lose focus after navigation. Adding a `data-sveltekit-keepfocus` attribute to a link...

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Sometimes you don't want [focus to be reset](/docs/accessibility#focus-management) after navigation. Adding a `data-sveltekit-keepfocus` attribute to a link...
```

```html
<a data-sveltekit-keepfocus href="/path">Path</a>
```

> ...will cause the currently focused element to retain focus after navigation. Otherwise, focus will be reset to the body.

Reviewer 2: Note to self to try out: I'm wondering if this really keeps focus on the element prior to clicking the a tag, or if the a tag itself is then the focus. Probably the latter, which is why this mainly makes sense for `<form>` elements, which we probably should note here

Reviewer: I'll give this a closer look later, but I think we should have some sort of note saying this is primarily intended for forms. I think it's usually an antipattern for links, unless you know what you're doing.

Reviewer: Confirmed the currently-focused element is the link itself. I think the language is fine as-is, not sure there's a better way to phrase it that doesn't exclude the form case. I added a suggested paragraph below discussing the a11y considerations.

> 

Reviewer: Maybe add a paragraph like:

```suggestion

In general, you _shouldn't_ use this attribute on links unless you know what you're doing. Screen reader and other assistive technology users often expect [focus to be reset](/docs/accessibility#focus-management) after a navigation. If you enable this option, make sure the currently-focused element still exists on the page you're linking to. If the element no longer exists, the user's focus will be lost, making for a confusing experience for assistive technology users.

```

Links with a `rel="external"` attribute will receive the same treatment. In addition, they will be ignored during [prerendering](page-options#prerender).

## data-sveltekit-replacestate

Sometimes you don't want navigation to create a new entry in the browser's session history. Adding a `data-sveltekit-replacestate` attribute to a link...

```html
<a data-sveltekit-replacestate href="/path">Path</a>
```

...will replace the current `history` entry rather than creating a new one with `pushState` when the link is clicked.

## data-sveltekit-keepfocus

When creating a search input using a `<form>` which reflects its input value in the URL, you might not want it to lose focus after navigation. Adding a `data-sveltekit-keepfocus` attribute to it...

```html
<form data-sveltekit-keepfocus>
	<input type="text" name="query">
</form>
```

> ...will cause the currently focused element to retain focus after navigation. Note that this only really makes sense for `<form>` elements. If you would add this to a link, the focused element would be the `<a>` tag, which is probably not what you want.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
...will cause the currently focused element to retain focus after navigation. Note that this only really makes sense for `<form>` elements. If you would add this to a link, the focused element would be the `<a>` tag, which is probably not what you want. You should also only use this on elements that still exist after navigation.
```
